[Music]
welcome to from startup to grownup the
podcast my name is Alyssa con I'm an
executive coach an angel investor and
the author of from startup to grown-up
each week I talk to Founders creators
advisors investors and Builders of all
kinds about their insights and
experiences in going from startup to
grown-up my guest today is Alex liberman
the co-founder and former CEO of morning
Brew Alex is now the executive chair of
morning brew and the creator of three
count of three podcasts The Crazy Ones
Impostors and a video podcast the
60-second startup we had such a rich
conversation about how Alex got into the
startup World his decision making
Frameworks and what it was like when he
sold morning brew a very surprising
story of how it all went down we also
had a real talk conversation about his
own struggles with mental health and how
important it is for Founders and every
one to identify and address their own
mental health issues we also talked
about Alex strategies for healing and
how he maintains perspective right now
we also talked about Alex's super cool
tool that he's building for other
Founders this is an incredible
discussion super honest super practical
Alex is wise Beyond his years and has a
lot to share and you're going to enjoy
it and learn a lot so please enjoy my
wonderful conversation with Alex
liberman executive chair of morning Brew
Alex welcome to the show I'm so excited
to have you today thanks so much for
having me excited to do this it's
exciting to be in real life here in New
York City and Alex I'd love to start by
just asking you about morning brewce so
you're the co-founder of morning Brew
what what was the Insight how did you
start morning Brew yeah it's one of
those stories of um an accidental
business founding I was a student at the
University of Michigan I was largely
there for two reasons one is because um
I wanted a a college experience that was
very different from my high school
experience which I got with Michigan I
went to a small private school in New
Jersey Michigan was about as different
as it gets but also I was planning for
basically my entire life um through
college to be a Wall Street Trader um
that's what my entire family did and so
I went to Michigan for the business
program and I was in my senior year at
Michigan I already had my job um secured
to work on Wall Street um at Morgan
Stanley as a Trader so I had a lot of
free time my senior year I started
spending that time by writing a daily
business newsletter I wrote that
newsletter for two reasons one was I
would say selfishly I wanted to keep up
to date with the business world so
because I was concerned that my brain
was going to atrophy if I just did
nothing my whole senior year the second
part I would say was more selfless where
I talked to a lot of students I asked
them how do you keep up with the
business world every student said I read
the Wall Street Journal but it's dense
it's dry my parents told me to I thought
that was crazy and so I started writing
this thing it was called market corner
it was it started as a Microsoft Word
template that I would convert to a PDF
attach it to an email and send to people
through a list serve the original list
serve was the market corner at.edu
and that was the start of morning Brew
not as a business something simply to
pass the time and solving a problem that
stud told me about so that's fascinating
because Ian part of this is like
senioritis in a way you just had to keep
but then how did you know that it had
real
heft yeah so I would say there were a
few things that I saw one
was there was a lot of traction in the
first few months of doing this and
traction is all relative but I would say
we went from the original newsletter
going to Let's called 50 people to I
don't know 300 people after a few months
and that sound small but to put it into
context there were
only 3,000 people in the business school
at Michigan Max this product was very
mediocre it was impossible to actually
use the product without asking me for it
so there was no website originally you
would have to message me say hey Alex I
heard about your daily Roundup can you
add me to your list serve and so the
fact that people were so excited about
this uh yet it was impossible to sign up
that's what made made me really excited
and then I would say part of it was I
was just really enjoying it like I
didn't actually think about this as a
business until I don't know a few months
before quitting my job at Morgan Stanley
to do this
full-time but I was just enjoying it
like I I would say I was getting so much
energy from being creative thinking
strategically um creating something from
scratch like that is something that I've
learned about myself is I love the
process of creating something from
scratch seeing what people like seeing
what people don't like and continuing to
evolve it based on what I think people
will like over time um and so yeah I
think part of it was we saw traction but
I also just kept pushing it Forward
because I was enjoying it it was just
fun for you and you love that sort of
tinkering and evolving process that's
amazing now we're gonna get to Mor G say
in a second but before that you when you
say we you mean you and Austin your
co-founder how did you meet Austin how
to get involved yeah so uh Austin reef
is my co-founder he's now uh the CEO of
morning Brew uh he was the COO for the
first let's call it five years so
between uh March of 2015 and April of
2021 in April 2021 I moved in the CEO
role to the chairman role he went from
the CEO coo role to the CEO role Austin
is two years younger than me he went to
Michigan as well we're actually in the
same fraternity but we didn't really
know each other he was just one of the
early readers so one of those first 500
people to get my PDF and I want to say
around December or January of 2014 or
2015 I had sent an email out to my
reader saying things are going well I
want to take this a little bit more
seriously if you're interested in
helping me out with this project let me
know and I ended up meeting up with
Austin uh because he raised his hand he
emailed back said I'm into it yeah he he
did a digital raise of the hand emailed
me saying I'm interested in helping out
have ideas for how it can be better uh I
still have saved the email about us
meeting up because it's a pretty funny
email it says we're it's us scheduling
when we're going to meet with each other
and it says like let's meet up before
BPL BPL was beer pong league in our
fraternity that we were both a part of
we met in the Winter Garden at Michigan
which was kind of like the main area of
the business school and I just I don't
remember the exact details of our first
conversation but I remember the feeling
that I had I remember feeling like wow
this guy's really intelligent and he has
such a different brain from me you know
where my brain is constantly thinking of
ideas uh around the product of kind of
like the customer and the reader and the
feedback that we've gotten like I've
always kind of just thought from a
either creative mindset or like a people
first mindset Austin was just an
unbelievable linear thinker
around very practically these are some
of the problems I see this is how to fix
them he is the most kind of a to B
thinker I've ever met and I feel so
grateful that I would say my original
intuition was strong because again we
weren't even thinking about it as a
business at the time so I wasn't like oh
this is going to be my co-founder I was
just like this guy is really smart and
he has such good blinders in Focus I
just want to learn from him and it just
so happened that we ended up becoming
co-founders and the success that morning
Bros had to this day wouldn't have been
possible without Austin yeah that's
great we s complimentary skill sets just
just to ask your intuition was good and
you probably started evolving into
working together at what moment did you
agree to be co-founders this was your
thing and he was helping you when when
did that shift yeah
I I want to say it
was I don't remember exactly when we
actually filed to be a business so you
know we first filed to be a Michigan LLC
the reason we did that was Michigan the
schools in Michigan and we were working
with the law clinic there so there was
like this pro bono Legal Clinic where
law students would help student
entrepreneurs with formation documents
and and uh Equity agreements etc for
free and so we probably did that around
April of 2015 the you know the
interesting thing is we actually had
four co-founders so it was Austin myself
and I brought on two other guys who were
in the business School in Michigan as
well they ended up um moving on from the
business called within 6 months of
joining for different reasons you know
one of them was interested in going into
Finance they had their internship coming
up and you know they were just more
interested in doing the finance thing
than the morning Brew thing and that's
great like to me you know that's what
happens a lot where naturally a
co-founder or two could end up going a
different way because it's just not
exciting to them and you really can't
fake being excited about something for
eight years um and so it was four of us
two of the co-founders left Austin and I
ended up together and I would say we
probably considered ourselves to be
co-founders in April or May of 2015 and
then I ended up graduating from Michigan
in June of 2015 got it okay and then you
went to Morgan Stanley and then at what
point did you get enough Confidence from
morg like you were at Morgan Stanley had
a normal job and doing everything you
always wanted to do be a Trader on Wall
Street at what point did you realize n
no I'm give that all up and I'm going to
focus fulltime on morning Brew yeah so I
made the actual decision uh right around
Labor Day of
2016 um but I would say it was nine or
10 months in the making that there were
months of basically kind of the same
story every day where I would wake up at
5:15 a.m. in my windowless room in uh
Kips Bay of New York New York City very
glamorous oh the best yeah the classic
five-bedroom apartment that was a
through two bedroom and had three rooms
that didn't have Windows right uh would
go to the office work out be at the desk
by 6:30 work in um you know mortgage
trading uh the dream job from 6:30 until
let's call it like 7 o'clock at night
come back from Time Square to the
apartment have dinner work on the Brew
for a few hours go to sleep and that was
like every day for 10 months wow and
there was a point a few months into
doing that routine where I was just like
this doesn't feel great and the reason
it didn't feel great is because I felt
like I was diluting my finite abilities
I I feel like it's such a cliche at this
point where a lot of people say you know
I wasn't the smartest but I worked the
hardest that is how I felt I felt like
um the way that I did well at Michigan
was simply by just spending more time in
the library than other people and so it
was this really defeating feeling where
I was like if I want to be the best
Trader in the world I would be
dedicating all of my time till tra to
trading if I wanted to be the best
entrepreneur in the world or the best at
building morning Brew I'd be spending
all my time at that but I wasn't doing
that so this feeling of dilution felt
defeating I also had this feeling like I
enjoyed the time spent on morning Brew
in kind of the late hours of the day far
more than I was enjoying trading you
know what I realized about about my time
in trading
was it wasn't creative at all and I've
just realized about myself that I need
to spend time on Creative work kind of
purely quantitative or analytical work
it just doesn't land with me I don't get
excited about it and I feel so grateful
that I'm surrounded by people in life
that do get excited about those things
because right like that's how you build
something bigger than yourself um and I
would say the other thing is I just had
this notion that I was going to love
trading not because I actually
understood what trading was but just
because I wanted to be like my parents
that is what they did and so I think by
doing the act of trading I realized for
myself that like there was kind of that
cognitive dissonance that existed I
committed to something that I didn't
truly understand and I think that's very
common for people going into first-time
jobs is they're just like I'm going to
do something like my parents um I ended
up making the decision to go full-time
on morning Brew for a few reasons I
basically thought about you know what's
the worst case scenario so what's the
worst case scenario if I decide to go
full-time I'm morning Brew the worst
case scenario is that it fails because
the majority of startups
do um especially media companies like
you know it's very hard to build a media
business and so I said okay if that
happens then what are my options and I
basically went through these layers of
like one option could be me going back
to Morgan Stanley if I keep my
relationship strong and I have this new
interesting experience that provides
texture on my resume I was like okay
let's say that doesn't work business
school maybe because building a business
in media with the finance experience
could be an interesting story if that
doesn't work out you know maybe I've met
people in the New York City startup
scene where I could go build something
else and I went through all these layers
and I was like if if none of these
things work out it's not like a morning
Brew issue it's an issue of me not
keeping options open and not keeping
relationships strong yeah so that was
one way I thought about it the other way
I thought about it was just like what
would I regret more yeah uh what I more
regret staying at Morgan Stanley and
watching someone else build morning Brew
just because they dedicated the time or
would I more regret leaving Morgan
Stanley and working on morning Brew
seeing it fail and then not be able to
get get a job back in Morgan Stanley and
to me it was like such an obvious answer
that I would more regret watching
someone else build this thing yeah so
those were a few of the ways I thought
about the decision you know Alex I have
to say how old were you you were like 22
23 um yeah I was so I mean I was 21 when
I graduated from Michigan so yeah 22
okay so here's what's normal in my world
I'm a coach normal people who come out
of school and they have a first job and
they're experiencing some oh what if I
do this and what if I do that oh no and
what I say to them is well you know even
if you fail you able to get something
else and keep your relationship strong
and what really matters is the
experiences and all the things you just
said how did you at that young age know
that by yourself like that's my job to
tell people that yeah yeah I I think
there's a few things one is
that I make it sound very clean right
now but when I was 22 or 23 thinking
through this I don't think it was such a
kind of organized thought process I just
think you know as over the last year uh
eight years I've built a business I've
spent time around a lot of smart
entrepreneurs my thinking has gotten
more organized so I don't want to kind
of like confound things I think I
describe it in a really clean way right
now but I don't know that it was
actually that clean at the time yeah so
I hope that gives Rel to people who are
thinking like am I not thinking about
things in a sophisticated or organized
enough way say most days was me getting
home and calling my mom and being on the
verge of tears being like what do I do
like that was the average way yeah um
that sounds more realistic yeah and I
would and I would say you know on the
flip side you know part of the question
that is like how is my thinking gotten
more organized over the last eight years
you know now I'm 29 I would say it's
been through the act of building a
business it's been a force function for
thinking more clearly it's been I
because I am just a lover of media and
content I consume a ton of content so I
focused on consuming content by people
who I consider to be like the clearest
thinkers in the world and then going
back to having Austin as my co-founder
that was one of the things that I was
most attracted to when I first spoke
about spoke with him in the winter
Garten was his ability to think at a
more sophisticated level than people
twice his age so I think also just
through osmosis and spending talking
every day with him for the last eight
years it has made me a better thinker I
see and so that kind of helps you
reflect on your experience now and maybe
make sense of it yeah and so you know
was I kind of like the most disorganized
thinker at the time no was I as
organized um as I describe it today no
it was probably somewhere in the middle
there were some days where I went
through kind of these trade-offs and
other days where I was just like kind of
acting
in an irrational emotional moment where
I was just like you know F this I want
to go do something else right right and
also the whole notion of just that
feeling of Despair yeah and then one
other point I would make is that the
other kind of lens that I looked at
things through that I didn't um mention
before is and and I've talked about this
in the past but I would say losing my
dad was like a a massive it it really
was like a light switch and again I
think it feels cliche to say you know
having a moment like that gave me
perspective but it really does you know
it's it's um interesting because on uh
my podcast The Crazy Ones one of my
co-hosts was telling the story of an
amazing business called Red Ventures Red
Ventures is a huge 12 billion doll media
business and this guy guy Rick Elias has
been building it over the last 20 years
but Rick you know a big part of his
story is that he was um on the flight
that landed in the Hudson um and he gave
a great Ted talk about it and he talks
about how like that moment really
changed his perspective before that he
was planning on just building Red
Ventures flipping it and going on to his
next business and everything changed
after that where he was like I'm going
to build this for the rest of my life
I'm gonna have balance in my life where
I get home to my kids at six o'clock and
from my understanding as my co-host
Jesse tells the story like he has stayed
true to that and so I would just say
like decisions have become easier for me
because if I do not feel energy around
those decisions I won't do them or
around those actions it's like I can't
fake enjoying things um and so I feel
very grateful kind of on the the other
side of tragedy the clarity that it has
provided me yeah and your maybe your
realization or maybe you could share
more about that like understand
obviously losing your dad yeah is just a
moment and it is a tragedy and and it
sounds like it clarified everything for
you what because like Life's too short
or like what specifically yeah I would
say there's a few things I would say one
thing was the job that I was doing at
Morgan Stanley I was trading mortgages
that is what my dad did for 20 years
yeah so I think part of it
was possibly fear-based decision making
where it was like wow my best friend
just passed away suddenly he's been
doing the job that I just started doing
like the exact role we had the exact
role yeah he's been doing this for the
last 20 years if stress created from
this job is what led to him ultimately
having a
stroke an assumption kind of my alwayson
brain made is like this feels like
ground Groundhog Day why is this not
going to happen to me 20 years from now
um that was one way of thinking about it
I think the other way of thinking about
it was very simply yeah
like all I can control are the things
that are in my control and what I can
control is the things that I spend time
on and that I feel energy around I felt
greater energy and excitement around
morning Brew I can control how much time
I spend on that and now one point I'll
make is that I only had the ability to
control that decision because I had the
privilege of my mom covering my rent for
10 months after I quit my job at Morgan
Stanley went from an $85,000 salary to
a$0 salary the decision- making wouldn't
have been nearly as easy
if I didn't have the opportunity of
falling back into a comfortable
situation with my family yeah thank you
for sharing that that's so honest I
think people sometimes just brush over
that yeah yeah and when you talk about a
cliche by the way about Rick's story I
heard about his story on the Peter AA
podcast yeah and I was also struck by
that and you know as a listener it feels
like a cliche and then if you're the one
I've had my own moments of Truth before
and I hear that you know obviously you
have too when you have that moment of
truth and it makes that change it really
is real I think that's why it's with
cliche by the way and so I think it's
just so important to you know recognize
those moments and to just honor them for
what they are yeah totally and you know
I would say what I've realized at least
for myself is my life and kind of my
psyche is this always existing kind of
like tug and pull between let's call it
like old stories and new stories or
intrinsic drive and extrinsic drive
right like there's always the the kind
of one side of me that's pulling myself
to just spend my time in the way that
best
fulfills my values and what gives me the
most energy no matter what anyone on the
outside has to say about it that's like
kind of the the part of me that I want
to get stronger and stronger there's the
other part of me that's like the the
external storytelling that has existed
for a long time like I would say since I
was a kid you know this um kind of this
focus on making more money beca because
I came from a Wall Street family and
interestingly enough like we didn't talk
about money a lot so I actually think in
a weird way I have a scarcity mindset
around money because I never knew
actually knew our financial situation as
a family so there were more always more
questions than answers I would say also
just like coming up into
entrepreneurship I had this idea of what
it meant to be a successful entrepreneur
it meant having the CEO title forever it
meant starting a business building your
business for decades taking your
business public and just kind of riding
on into the sunset it meant not just
building one business but after you have
a successful business building a second
one that's even bigger and a third one
that's even bigger than that in meant
going on in Angel Investing after being
a Founder because that's what every
founder
does all of these stories are stories
that if I just latch on to it and do it
I'm doing it because of my desire to
fulfill the story not not what actually
provides me the greatest level of joy
and even though I can rationally talk
about that I think having my actions
mirror the story that I want to be
stronger in my life which is kind of
like my inner desires the things that
give me the most Joy is a constant tug
and pull yeah that there's so much there
and there's so much to unpack because I
know that you really struggled with that
so you sold morning Brew in if I'm not
mistaken two 2020 you sold Insider
and so can you take us back to that Zoom
call where you consummated the deal with
Insider like what was that like for you
yeah so you know just to give some
context on the deal it was many months
in the making um it was 11 months we
started talking with Insider in November
of
2019 the deal probably would have
happened faster but in March of 2020 you
know the
world end changed everything happened
and so was this constant EB and flow for
basically 11 months of like feels like
we're doing the deal feels like we're
not doing the deal it feels like the the
world's ending and feels like our
advertising dollars are going to zero
we're definitely not doing the deal oh
wow the deal's back onone wow wa by the
way before you get go on That's So
fascinating what was that like for you
because that's what entrepreneurs have
to always do navigate that roller
coaster in that ups and downs if you
were saying oh the deals deal is
happening it's not happening oh we're g
to we're going to not die oh we're going
to die what was that like for you just
briefly
it
was I would say it was a little bit
discombobulating um I think I had kind
of this faith that the deal was going to
get done um there was a period of time
in late March early April that was the
time where I was like most uncertain
about everything because in that time
from call it like March 15th to April
15th that's when it felt like our
business was going out the window there
was a period of a week where dozens of
advertisers canceled their deals with us
Austin and I were worried about
advertising Revenue going down by like
50% we spent a ton of time literally
just brainstorming any possible way we
could make money as a business um
whether it was literally uh starting a
patreon and getting donations uh
launching an education business which is
one of the things we actually ended up
doing um so I would say that period of
time was kind of like the most
uncertainty I've ever had around the
business and I would say just the
decision to do the deal itself is such
an interesting and complex thing and
it's so different for different
Founders for me I would say you know
what has driven me what drove me to
build morning brew and drove me
ultimately to do the deal I would say is
some
combination of love for the game and
money um I don't know let's call it on
average it was 5050
if you had to ask me um what it is for
Austin and You' have to ask him for the
exact number but like my guess is for
Austin was more like 70% or 80% love for
the game 20% money and if if you were to
ask me like why why does your balance
look this way I would say one it goes
back to kind of the scarcity mindset
around money and this desire to hoard
money because I think that I need more
of it and protect it I also think
generally like it it this connection to
happiness for a long time even though
the rational brain has always said like
doesn't define happiness um and I would
also say
that to me um after my dad passed away I
just felt this level of obligation to my
family where you know there was a period
of called when my dad um pass my right
before junior year of college to when we
did the
deal I kind of assumed this role of I'm
going to take care of my family like I
and quite literally assumed the role in
like when my dad was in the hospital
when I knew he was going to pass and
they hadn't pulled the plug yet I in the
room with him in the hospital said to
him I'm G to take care of everyone and
it's it's one of those things like I I
think there's so many layers of like
subconsciously I don't even re think I
realized what that did by saying those
word words to him it just dictated all
of my behaviors from that point on my
behaviors in terms of like the focus
that I put into school and how hard I
worked in school to make sure my like
GPA was great so that I could get a
great job on Wall Street like my grades
after my dad passed were far better than
my grades before my dad passed um and so
once I knew that there was a
life-changing number that Insider was
putting in front of us I would say that
part of my
brain kind of overpowered other parts of
my brain because I was like you know
this is the moment where I can be set
for the rest of my life and my family
can be as well and I don't any longer
have to worry about the fact that the
libran household only has money outflow
and not money inflow yeah so wow there's
a lot there and so that was both
probably conscious and unconscious
totally in those moments and so the deal
did come together as you said and what
was it like for you to be I heard you
talk about this and I'd love you to
share with our listeners like what was
it like for you to be on the zoom call
when like wiring the money yeah because
you made this decision and again it was
rational and also subconscious like in
some Way's paying a debt to your dad but
there you are in the actual moment yeah
I would say uh underwhelming is is the
word um yeah yeah I mean I just I still
have a screenshot of the zoom with
Austin myself Insider folks Axel
Springer folks and like we're smiling in
the picture if you were ask me like the
feelings I was feeling I was like I was
happy but I wasn't like ecstatic I
wasn't crazily excited I would say my
mom and my fiance were more excited like
they had champagne in our it was in my
mom's place in uh New Jersey because it
was during the pandemic and we were
living with my mom like she had
champagne and balloons and they were you
know when um the axle folks said that
like the wire transfer starting like my
mom and my fiance were like cheering for
me but I didn't feel any of that I think
part of it is because the deal was 11
months in the making so it was like for
11 months I think I had these
opportunities these micro opportunities
to prepare myself mentally for the deal
and it was like I knew for 11 months
what what the what was going to happen
so even though like you know the bank
account number went up I knew what was
going to happen for a pretty long time
i' say the other part of it is I I think
that
sometimes my body protects itself from
feeling deeply in either direction um my
guess is that it's a combination
of my parents not showing a lot of
emotion growing up I think being in a
Wall Street family like I never saw my
dad cry once uh only seeing my mom cry a
handful of times so like I would say
kind of like our emotional range as a
household was you know
if you know uh some of my friends it's
let's call it to call it a -10 to a 10
our emotional range was more like a
three to a
negative3 um I think my dad passing away
also impacted my ability to feel deeply
or Express deeply because it was like
everything was anchored from that moment
and it was like how could anything be as
bad as this moment um and again I think
that it makes sense rationally but I I
think also feeling deeply is such a a
beautiful thing to experience life fully
so it's like something I work on all the
time um and I also think it was a coping
mechanism for Austin and I to be
levelheaded operators because you know
back to your question of like what was
it like to be in the es and flows of the
deal that's not just the deal right
that's kind of the Arc of an entire
business and so I would say Austin and I
got really really good at not
celebrating things and got really really
good at when was hitting the fan
whether it was our website being hacked
whether it was our first employee
quitting whether it was being told no by
dozens of advertisers on uh advertising
deals we were able to stay very cool
common collected and so I think that is
effective in building a business it's
less effective in every other aspect of
life right and you you know for all of
us we get sensitized and we learn a
certain set of skills and then it's it's
not like you just turn them off when you
go home tot yeah and and those skills
again they can be useful for certain
things but not in other context totally
and to your point about the ups and
downs I mean every single founder I've
ever dealt with talked to coached
experienced anything they all talk about
the surprise of the ups and downs even
though everyone talks about the ups and
downs but it's actually a surprise when
it's happening to you did you find that
way um
I I didn't find it to be particularly
surprising again like I think Austin and
I got so good at being numb to the ups
and downs like I think Austin by nature
is a kind of more stoic figure than I am
and I think I just got very
desensitized um
so yeah I would say like our level of
reaction to the UPS like the ups and
downs absolutely happened but I think
our level of reaction it you know it
reminds me in some ways of uh have you
ever heard of Alex h he's the rock
climber yeah the rock climber yeah yeah
so um Alex
honold you know they're considered the
world's greatest rock climber there's
the documentary about him called free
solo um he free soloing for those who
don't know is where you climb up a
mountain without any harness ropes uh or
support and he has climbed some of the
crazy craziest mountains one is called
elcapitan it's like a mountain that very
few people have done with ropes and he
did it without ropes and he gave a TED
talk about his free soloing
and they did MRIs on his brain around uh
triggering kind of the uh VI the visuals
and taking back to the moments when he
was free soloing and that he could have
fallen to his death Etc and they
basically said the MRI scans were the
exact same as a typical person walking
through the park and and so like it
it's I'm not at all at all Alex honold
but to me that's a relatively good
analogy for I think what our emotional
state was with things uh in the business
that if someone who was wasn't running
our business looked at it they'd be like
oh my God like this all is going on
whereas for Austin and I we became so
just like normalized to these things
yeah well I have to ask you though was
that always that way or was that a
learned skill just from repetition
because I think that you know Founders
entrepreneurs who go through the roller
coaster they do finally come to like
realize okay this is the way it's going
to be for eight years it's it's so
honestly it's so hard to remember maybe
the answer is yes but yep yes but I'm
not entirely sure yeah yeah I get it so
then after you did the sale and went
through the sale you then became the
executive chairman yep and uh your
co-founder Austin replaced you as CEO to
talk about that decision yeah so you
know the long short of it is that a ail
of 2021 is when I officially moved out
of the CEO role I think really kind of
that
transition uh not by title but by just
time and
behavior was probably six months in the
making you know I think the the short
answer of it is
I was good at being a builder CEO I was
particularly bad at the transition into
an operational CEO and now I think
there's a few reasons for why and I
think understanding the why is valuable
and understanding kind of how do I level
up moving forward I think one reason why
is
because I going back to like me wanting
to spend time on the things that give me
energy I just continue to spend my time
I'm kind of like building tinkering
creating new things so you know rather
than then let's say goal setting long
range planning thinking about building
out an executive team I was thinking
about what's the next B2B newsletter
we're going into uh when are we
launching a podcast what is that podcast
so I think I was assuming a lot of the
role of just like I don't know whether
you want to call a CH a chief Innovation
officer whatever it may be but I think
what I wasn't assuming the role of is
you know the first job of a company YC
says this uh Paul Graham says this first
job of a company is to find product
Market fit second job of a company is to
build a company that second job I just
don't think like kind of the light
switch ever got turned for me to spend
time on it and I would say that
transition our company was kind of made
in the middle to late of 2019 I vividly
remember in our Wei work space Austin
coming to me with a book that he was
recommended by one of our investors it
was actually our investor who invented
the Snuggie and he's an amazing
entrepreneur and he told us about this
book called traction uh by Gino Wickman
that's a great book right and it's uh
all about the EOS the entrepreneurial
operating system um basically for those
of you that don't know what it is eos is
a it's a standard operating procedure
for building and scaling a company and
so what it includes is it starts at it
goes most macro to most micro so
it's uh Mission Vision Values people
then it goes to what's your 10e 5year
threeyear oneye goals and then at the
most micro level what are your 90day
goals those are called rocks and then it
also sets up like your standard
operating procedure for meetings so how
often do you have your uh all hands or
your pulse meetings how often are you
doing offsites and what is the agenda
for offsites and so Austin was like at
this point in the business it still felt
like we were operating for today like
everything we were doing was making sure
the machine was still running today and
Austin had made the comment at some
point he's like I think we need to start
thinking more proactively so that we can
be planning for weeks months and
quarters ahead and everything we're
spending our time on today is to help
the business months from now and I think
at the time probably my less mature
brain was like yeah but that stuff's not
fun and um I I remember uh Austin had
told me to read that book of course the
first time he asked me I didn't read it
and then he followed up and he's like
dude you got to read the book like this
is literally about the future of our
business and in retrospect it was such a
you know uh a rightful comment to make
and so yeah I think a big part of it was
I didn't make the mental transition from
building to operating nearly soon enough
and then you know the other piece of it
um was around just my own mental health
um I've had uh OCD since I don't know I
can remember and I was in kind of a very
intense period of OCD or obsessive
compulsive disorder uh for probably all
of 2018 or a lot of 20 a lot of 2018
into most of 2019 and so during that
period of time it's when I had my first
panic attack ever um woke up in the
middle of the night gasping for breath
thinking I was going to pass out had
panic attacks for you know probably a
month straight until seeing a
psychiatrist and so you know probably to
take a little bit of the pressure off
myself and not just kind of um deliver
this critical feedback to myself there
was also a part of me that I think was
not presentent enough in mind to be
thinking about the transition in the
business because I would say for a year
to year and year and a half I was it was
a full-time job managing my psyche where
when you're building a business if
you're really enjoying the pro the the
process I'd say 90% of your thoughts are
about the business you go to sleep
thinking about ideas for the business
you wake up thinking about kind of the
biggest blockers to remove in the
business for that year to year and a
half that was not what was what I was
thinking about I was going to sleep
thinking about my obsessions I was
waking up thinking about my obsessions
that must have been so difficult yeah
yeah it was it was brutal um and again
like I I don't know why it is but I
always look for kind of like the
opportunities and things so what I find
is like the the experience with OCD the
experience with my dad have given me
kind of like a beautiful skill of seeing
the best in people of empathizing with
people of having an emotional toolkit
that I feel very grateful for but yeah
it sucked it absolutely sucked yeah I
also didn't realize that OCD was a thing
that would kind of go in and out a
little bit like you probably always have
a backdrop of OCD but sometimes it's
super intense in the background yeah the
the way that I think about it
is kind of my base level of OCD for
let's call it between 2015 and 2020 was
let's call it like a four a three or
four out of 10 where there was always
some amount of like little bits of
pressure that I felt on my chest like if
you envision like a a 5 pound weight on
your chest that's what it felt like
during periods
of constant Obsession and rumination you
can basically assume that it felt like a
25 pound weight on my chest that 90% of
my thoughts were about my obsession that
it almost felt like a kind of if you
visualize like when you have um like
kind of one of those swimmers in your
eye and you like look out of your eye
and it's kind of blurry imagine just
like there's a whole film of fog over my
eye where like I never I wasn't I'm not
able to be my most 100% present self in
any aspect of life um and I would say my
obsessions have changed form over time
the things that I obsess about but they
all have the kind of the same pattern
the things that I obsess about are
always extremely important to my
identity
um and there's no way to objectively
answer my obsessions it's always there's
an unknown piece to it so to just give
one
example something that um I was really
that I ruminated a lot about after my
dad passed away was my
health um and and this happened to like
a close family member of mine as well
where they had very significant
significant Health OCD after my dad
passed away and it led to eating
disorder for them for me what it led to
is there was a period of time where I
wouldn't run on a treadmill because I
was so fearful that if I got my heart
pumping too fast I would be one of the
young people who had a cardiac arhythmia
and just dropped dead and unless I went
to a Cardiologist and got my heart
mapped every week uh there's no way to
definitively answer if I'm going to drop
de or not like it's an unanswerable
question so what compulsion in OCD
refers to is compulsing on your thoughts
so taking this thought of I am fearful
that I am going to drop dead while
running on a treadmill so I'm not going
to run on a treadmill it's avoiding the
thought versus what you know what you're
taught to do with OCD with anyone who
has OCD and by the way something I've
learned recently is how prevalent OCD is
uh at least 5% of adults uh struggle
with OCD um what you're supposed to do
is it's called um Erp or or uh exposure
response prevention where you actually
go and you run on a treadmill and
actually test running on the treadmill
as fast as you can um where you actually
desensitize yourself to the provoking
thought so that's one example of it but
it's manifested in different ways over
the course of my life based on what is
most important and provoking at that
time but there are periods again where I
go through like the three out of 10
stage where there isn't that thing that
my mind is just constantly grabbing on
to for weeks or months on end yeah
that's a lot to handle and I'm curious
if but maybe some of your OCD was coming
up for you when you then stepped away
from operational day-to-day of the
business yeah uh absolutely I would say
partly because I just had more free time
so there was more time for my brain to
wander I'd say the other you know the
other big thing that came up for me and
I don't know if this would be considered
OCD I just consider it to be more like
self-doubt the opposite of self-loving
is I found myself to be very um kind of
self critical um and self-deprecating
after I moved out of the role right
because given the backdrop of kind of my
story that I have told myself um and
that's a story whether that's a true
story or not you know I don't know but
the story I told myself is like I messed
up in my role I could have been better
and so after I moved out of the chairman
role it
was I wasn't a good CEO I got lucky with
morning brew and I'm never going to be
successful again now I need to build
another business in order to prove to
myself that I capable of this and I
wasn't a one-trick Pony um what am I
going to do for the rest of my life I'm
a 29y old I have no idea how I'm going
to fill my time for hopefully the next
50 years and so yeah there was a period
of time where like I just felt super
down on myself because I didn't know
what I was going to do with my time I
felt like my previous time that I spent
wasn't time well spent because I wasn't
successful in that so I felt like I had
regrets and so I was just lost yeah I I
mean I'd like to read a little bit of
what what I read that you wrote you
wrote right after transitioning from the
CEO to Executive chairman Ro morning
Brew I didn't love myself I felt lost I
felt self-conscious I felt a lack of
worth I felt like a failure and you're
hearing this and may be like what are
you talking about Alex you sold your
company for a bunch of money and your
executive chairman at 28 stop
complaining get your together but
that wasn't my honest experience I felt
like a failure for feeling like it
wasn't the right time to transition why
did I feel that why couldn't I keep
running the company forever and then you
talk more about being a a onetick pony
and I felt a loss of identity and I
didn't know who Alex liberman was
outside of morning
brew and could you maybe maybe get a
little more deep into what was in your
head or in your heart during that period
and then also how did you find your way
out of that yeah I mean I think what was
in my head was this is a really hopeless
feeling because for the longest time I
thought that kind of like the end goal
or part of the end goal was having a lot
of
money I got to a point where that was my
reality but I wasn't any happier I would
actually say I was less happy because
now I didn't feel like I had the crutch
of money so like that goalpost no longer
existed so I no longer had kind of let's
call it this superficial North Star that
existed
um the other the other piece of it is
for whatever reason I had more money
anxiety than ever because now I was like
what do I do with this and I I felt a
level of loneliness because everything
you just um described is a very first
world problem right like everything that
we're describing is uh completely a
a a function and problem from privilege
and so I felt I would say a level of
embarrassment when talking about this
because I I kind of said to myself like
people are dealing with so much more
than this why am I going to
complain about this and so that what
that led to is me only talking to very
few people about kind of my situation
and my experience um the way that I got
out of it was reminding myself to not
feel rushed in this process so not
feeling like I have to figure out all of
these answers on day one also I tried to
make the kind of the problems or the
questions I was answering as small as
possible so rather than asking myself
the question of what am I going to do
with the next 50 years of my life ask
myself you know what am I going to do
with the next month of my my life like
to me that's that took a lot of weight
around kind of the problems I I was
creating for myself I spent a lot of
time uh reading so I uh reading mostly
not business stuff but I think I would
say things more in the genre of like
personal development
self-discovery um stoicism Buddhism yeah
and I feel like again that's such a
cliche thing for fer to do is start
getting all like hippie dippy and
spiritual but like I I was just looking
for kind of tools I I felt like I lacked
tools to navigate this Challenge and I
was looking for tools that's basically
what I was doing I also spent a lot of
time talking to people who had moved
into chairman roles to ask them what
they did in their roles how like if
their experience was similar to mine and
of course it's not all that surprising
that their experiences were very similar
to mine same questions around feel the
need to start another business to prove
that they're not a one-trick pony same
questions around feeling lost what am I
going to do with my time now same
feelings with like was I actually good
at this so I found comfort in that not
necessarily be because it gave me more
tools um but because there's a level of
satis satisfaction you get in not just
just being told by other people yeah
there's a lot of people like you but
actually talking to the people like you
and then I would say for
me the way I started framing things for
myself is just like what
is what would my ideal day look like
right now and how do I get towards what
that ideal day looks like try for a
little while and then kind of reassess
and so what I said to myself my idea
ideal day looks like
is spending time uh supporting Austin
and the Brew in the ways that I enjoy
most and therefore I think I can add the
most value so for me that is providing
value from a Content perspective like I
absolutely love consuming content coming
up with content ideas uh providing
thoughts on who are great uh people we
can bring into our business that can
create content for us I love tackling
big problems with Austin so whether it
is Personnel problem s whether it's
strategic questions I like talking
through those with Austin and something
I've realized over time is I think I
like thinking through those and talking
through those versus those things being
my full-time
job um and then I also realized outside
of morning brew
that a big thing that I was missing uh
especially when I was spending a lot of
time consuming content and reading was I
loved learning
but I I didn't love just learning
through
consumption I had to learn through
building and so I was like I need to
find a way to just like tinker and build
again and so it started at like the
simplest level of I've gotten super into
Legos in the last year where I've built
a ton of Lego related things I've
brainstormed businesses for how am I
going to build a Lego Competitor because
I just love building and it's actually
been very therapeutic but also what just
happened is I've just come up with some
ideas
that I don't even call them business
ideas similar to morning Brew I just
call them like hobbies and side projects
that I can build something that I think
is going to provide value to people um
that I'm enjoying the process of
learning and in doing this if it turns
into a business five years from now
great that's awesome um and and I would
say with any of these ideas there's a
small part of me that believes they can
be a business that I think gives me
enough of an interest in it so such that
I do it but I'll give you an example
like something that I'm working on right
now is building what I consider to be
the world's greatest datab base of
curated content for Founders so one
place where if you are a startup founder
and you have a question around how much
Equity to give to Executives that you
hire um where to find a coach or how do
you what is it look like to um work with
an executive coach in a smart way uh how
to hire well how to fire well so much of
this great content exists on the
internet it just hasn't been aggregated
in one place and so the I would say the
value of curation is higher than ever
before so literally just in my free time
that I'm not helping with the Brew I'm
putting together this thing which
involves me using air table for the
first time creating a database that's
connected to another piece of no code
software that turns it into a website I
feel so much energy from that and I
think doing this kind of project has
made has been reaffirming to where I do
feel energy versus where I don't because
a question I would always have for
myself about where I don't feel energy
is is I would always be self-doubting
and ask myself do I not feel energy
because I actually don't feel energy
here or because I'm not good at this
thing and so I'm creating a good excuse
for why I don't feel energy around it
right I think the short answer is it
kind of doesn't matter and I should
really just spend time on the things
that light me up yeah for sure Alex
there's so much in what you just said I
have got to go I'm going to go backtrack
in a number of thing
in particular I heard what you just said
about curation of the founders
information I heard that yep but I also
think you just broke some news that
you're creating a competitor to Lego is
that accurate uh yes I'm breaking news
I'm still in the early days of uh watch
his face yeah I I what I've read is
basically getting uh creating a physical
product that can be connected like Legos
but doesn't lead to you getting sued by
Lego for infringing on their patents
extrem hard there are many tried to do
this and they get sued by Lego so the
big question my head is how can you
build something that interlocks in a
really customizable way but you don't
get sued by Lego so if anyone has an
answer let me know right in okay okay
great and then just backing up before
that you said that during this period
where you were finding yourself and I
think healing in many ways from these
experiences that you read some books so
like what are some books that you
recommend for people yeah that really
were helpful to you uh such aich so I
would say any of the um books by Ryan
holiday yes so the daily stoic he just
came out with um a new book that
discipline yes well is it discipline
discipline's Destiny I think yeah uh I
think that was great as well um man
search for meeting by Victor Frankle uh
CR super sad book but um like I think
really profound um I'm trying to think
what else I read I read a number of
essays by Founders who had moved from
CEO to Chairman roles where they
basically did kind of memos on why
they're making the transition I found
those to be really helpful books or blog
posts they're blog posts by the way some
of the best content I read I think is
personal essays substacks and bl blog
post over books yeah that's also kind of
like a new thing I decided over time is
like I'm not going to read full books if
I don't like them I think people feel a
need to get to completion for the ACT
for the sake of finishing a goal but I
just think if I if a book starts feeling
repetitive after a few chapters or I'm
not driving with it it's okay move on to
the next one yeah yeah totally there's a
lot of good content out there yeah
that's not the book from sharp to
grownup that is a page Turner every
single page there you go exactly yeah um
and then you also and this is so
significant you said that you talked to
other Founders who had transitioned into
executive chair roles I think that's so
important and I told you before we were
we were filming this or recording this I
told you that I think part of the my
biggest mandate for this podcast is for
Founders to recognize that they're not
alone there's other people going through
the same experiences then of course
talking to other Founders is like the
best way to do that and I guess I'm
curious like is there one example in
mind that you can think of you may not
be able to but like is a story that you
remember where you talked to one of the
founders who was going through this that
you found particularly insightful or
poignant or comforting or that resonated
with you yeah I mean I would say the
consistent thing the consistent story I
was told by other Founders who had made
this transition was like you should
absolutely not feel the need and you
should tell yourself the story that like
building a business has to be bigger
than morning Brew is um a Fool's errand
that even if you complete that you're
just going to keep moving the goalpost
like how do you get to a point of where
it feels like enough I'd say that's the
first thing the second thing is I
actually think seeing these people who
are few steps ahead and got exciting
about excited about something provided a
frame of reference of if I tried those
things and I didn't feel a similar level
of excitement it maybe was a good sign
that that's not the path I should go
down so for example I spoke to uh Ryan
Hoover who's the founder of product hunt
um and he was the CEO now he's the
co-founder or sorry now he's the
chairman and he runs a a VC now I think
it's weekend fund I think it's called um
and he Lov loves investing in Founders
he loves it and again I think it's such
a classic thing for Founders to go into
Angel Investing then start a fund
because I think the Playbook is so clear
of like you have a network you can get
good deal flow you can make a lot of
money starting a fund because you get
management fees you get Carry I've been
investing in I so one of the things I
did in this period of time was like I'm
G to invest more to help Founders um and
so I I wrote 15 checks over the last 12
months and I was just like I'm going to
see what 12 months of doing this is like
I've realized I really don't like
investing I really do not enjoy it and I
think seeing his excitement around it
provided a good reference for me real
realizing it's so clear that it feels
like work right now yeah and like it
should not feel like work right um the
other thing that I didn't mention aside
from talking to Founders is um I had a
coach um we haven't worked together
recently but it's someone who started as
a friend worked with him for probably
year and a half to two years and
something that one of my co-hosts on The
Crazy Ones talked about because we did
an episode on Executive coaching and
what our thoughts were about coaching
when it makes sense to get one the type
of like how you pick the right coach is
Jesse my co has talked about kind of
like this 2 by two Matrix of um at least
one of the two by tws is kind of like
business or strategic consultant or like
kind of like spiritual guide because I
would say there's very different flavors
to executive coaches and the big thing
with my coach is you know he had he has
amazing business savvy he ran a media
business he started Summit which is one
of like the big conferences um and so he
had this media and operational
experience but like he had been
committed to kind of like spiritual work
for call it the last nine years started
with Eastern work in like Buddhism and
now he's done a lot of Western work and
I would say for me for what I needed as
I was coming out of my CEO role had lots
of questions lots of doubts he was the
perfect person to talk to to help
navigate that time yes I just want to
emphasize and highlight that there are
so many different kinds of coaches who
do different things and you've got to
find the person who's going to be able
to help you on your current Mission
totally yeah and and I think at the end
of the day I think of coaching like I
think
of um finding a co-founder or finding a
romantic partner in life where it's a
process like it shouldn't be like a
point and shoot you found your person
and I say that especially with coaching
because I think there's a ton of bad
coaches and the reason I believe that is
because anytime you have a career path
where it can be lucrative and the bar to
enter is super low you naturally will
have people that enter there's going to
be a lot of supply and so I think what
happens is you just have a lot of people
that call their themselves coaches they
don't have any sort of Licensing
whatever it may be it's different than
like psychologist where you literally
need to have the degree and so I would
argue that actually the best way to find
a coach is to talk to four or five
people because by the way some may be
bad coaches or they could all be good
coaches but there's a coach who makes
the most sense for what your personality
is and for the acute challenges you have
right now and so you know I talked to a
number of coaches before I landed on the
coach I ended up going with yes also
talk to your friends and peers and other
Founders to figure out who working with
and why they like that person get those
introductions and then you know the
thing you're talking about is so uh I
think significant so the idea that the
founder either becomes executive
chairman or sells the company right and
steps away and there is this depression
loss of identity what why is that would
you say why is that so normal yeah
because I think kind of the
way the way we as humans work this is at
least how I try to wrap my head around
it the way we work as humans is like
we're trying to satisfy our most basal
needs that have been with us for tens of
thousands of years and I would say the
number one is to feel safety um and the
way you feel safety to me is through
status and connection and one of the
ways you feel status or at least as a
Founder is like you feel status through
kind of your role in the hierarchy of
the business you feel status through the
accolades that you get
externally and so when you no
longer have a place in that hierarchy
when you no longer are getting accolades
for being the CEO therefore you've lost
your status to me you you've lost your
safety and Cat Cole talks about this
concept of diversifying your purpose
portfolio which you know to me what it
basically means is don't throw all your
eggs in a single identity basket right
don't just think of yourself as a
founder and CEO don't just think of
yourself as a parent don't just think of
yourself as like a friend kind of think
of yourself in many ways you are many
things and I think the reason many
Founders including myself fail at doing
that at diversifying kind of their
identity is because your sense of value
and end up being attached to the amount
of time that you put in certain parts of
your identity and as a Founder
inevitably you put a ton of your time in
this one identity and so when that time
is very quickly taken away from you you
don't necessarily there's almost kind of
like this
um Whiplash that happens because you
haven't yet reallocated your time to
these other things in your life so you
have to be really proactive and
intentional about giving your time to
these other things otherwise you're
going to feel this sense of the one
thing that I was tied to has been taken
away and I haven't given nearly enough
time to these other parts of my identity
to feel like they truly have given me
value and then safety in life right wow
that's so well said and and especially
so true because it's all consuming yeah
so you then don't do that diversity I I
love the the purpose what is it purpose
portfolio I love that and I had s band
um who's the founder of founder
co-founder and CEO of contactually which
got um sold to Compass and he said that
even before the sale he kind of realized
that it was he talked to a lot of
Founders and he realized that he had to
start diversifying his interest
otherwise to your point the sudden drop
is so jarring totally yeah you have
everything like taken away from you yeah
100% it it is jarring and I think to
that point again just like having other
people to talk about this with is the
most valuable thing yeah so important so
what are you so it sounds like right now
you have gone through that process it
sounds like you're feeling better about
everything you're sort of tinkering with
a bunch of different things is that
accurate yeah I would
say I've gone through this process of
trial and error to find things that I
enjoy spending time on yeah so like I
mentioned I tinkered with Angel
Investing I don't really enjoy it and
again I try to be super intentional with
my stories and words because I that ends
up being my thoughts and my thoughts end
up being how I behave and so like I
don't enjoy Angel Investing right now
could change absolutely but at this
point in time I don't enjoy it um I
tinkered with the idea of buying small
businesses because that's a very popular
thing that my friend Cody Sanchez does
and so for a period of time I was
looking at buying mini golf courses the
idea was to buy a bunch of mom and poo
mini golf courses wrap a brand around it
um operationalize them a little bit and
then turn them almost into like a top
golf for mini golf where it's like a
tech enabled mini golf uh the idea
sounds great but I realized that like
not starting something from scratch it
didn't feel scratch enough for me to get
excited about it so I got I wasn't
excited about that and so I've gone
through I would say like four or five
iterations of things I've tried and
really haven't gotten excited about them
the things that I am excited about right
now is providing kind of like advice and
consultation to Austin when he solicits
it to other Founders that I'll just kind
of like just um informally help out I
enjoy creating content that's why I have
three two podcasts and a video series
right now I have The Crazy Ones which is
this start startup radio show basically
um Impostors which is a show
interviewing top performer top
performers about critical challenges in
their careers and kind of their mental
health Journey as they navigated those
challenges and then I have 60c startup
which which is like my version of my
short form version of Shark Tank where I
have entrepreneurs pitch their
businesses in 60 Seconds like I love
creating that content partially because
I love being creative and partially
because I think it leans into one of my
skills which I would consider to be like
storytelling salesmanship
articulation um I enjoy building things
from scratch which is why I have these
like little side projects right now I
have the startup database that I'm
building I also have a backyard game
that I'm building like learning to build
a physical product and it's fun yeah
it's a product that like literally
worked with manufacturers in China to
build it the hope is for it to be like
the next big backyard game for families
so I love tinkering and so I actually
spent a lot of time now looking at
models of people who also like tinkering
and it built good structure around their
tinkering so one example of that would
be like my co-host Jesse Pui he built
ampush which is uh was one of the
largest Facebook marketing agencies in
the world actually sold that business to
Red Ventures and what he he's similar to
me where he loves building new ideas he
loves going zero to one and then having
operator run the business and kind of
like his why his purpose is to help grow
entrepreneurs and so what he's done is
he's built three businesses in the last
18 months he stands them up he has
funded most of them with his own money
from his previous business he gets it to
a point where he believes it's hit
product Market fit he finds a firsttime
operator so they can learn how to be an
entrepreneur he trusts them with the
business they scale it he moves on to
the next one to build stand up and find
the next operator and you know now this
has become called like the Venture
Studio model for a while it's existed
for a while just didn't always have that
name that structure is really
interesting to me because it allows me
to be kind of like crazy creative and
have structure around kind of my uh
scattered brain or your desire to build
exactly right right right boy I really
love that I didn't actually realize you
were doing um your impostor video series
yeah I'm obsessed with the idea of
impostor syndrome yeah uh you know you
mentioned how you had this experience
with OCD and actually a lot of people
have OCD I think you said 5% yeah that
that's like I would say like the minimum
right the floor for what it can be right
it turns out you probably know this
already
95% of high performers have at some
point experienced impost or or severe
self-doubt yeah yeah not surprised by
that at all yeah I mean have you also
dealt with that oh yeah totally I mean I
would say a lot of what I just yeah it's
my entire story Alissa were you
listening yeah exactly I know I um and
that's why I started the show originally
is because I was like I think so many
Beyond creating kind of like groups for
people to meet together how can I kind
of
provide a solution for kind of like
founder and professional loneliness at
scale yeah and the idea was a show where
the best in the world open up about
their impostor syndrome and their
self-doubt because it's just a constant
reminder in your ears about even the
very best are having likely the same
exact thoughts that you have so true and
the way to get the only way out is
through yep right you just got to keep
putting one foot in front of the other
and your point earlier about oh if I
fail it'll be okay we all need to just
own if I fail it'll be okay yep and and
I think by the way I think it's a
cultural thing
because um you
know a startup community that I'm always
really um that I admire a lot is like
the Israeli startup Community
because you know my understanding is
like so many unicorns and big businesses
have been founded in Tel Aviv and in
Israel but what I also understand about
the ecosystem is like failure is an
expectation like so many of these
successful Israeli entrepreneurs have
failed three or four times before and
then they don't even use the word
failure there and it reminds me of I was
listening to uh the Allin podcast
yesterday or actually sorry I was
listening to Allin but I was actually
listening to Lex fredman's podcast where
he interviewed chamath Palapa who's one
of the co-hosts of all-in and jamath is
telling his
story and you know he basically talks
about like his whole thesis and the it
comes from him running product to
Facebook right where the original Mantra
was um uh was it build things or like
build fast fast and break things yeah
build fast and break things fast and
break things exactly and he's like you
know the the entire way to accelerate in
your career is actually to just make as
many mistakes as fast as possible
because the way it works and this is
like an old Charlie Munger um mental
model is like there's this very tiny
circle of the things that you know that
you know then there's a uh little bit
bigger circle of the things that you
know that you don't know and then
there's a massive Circle that's like
multiples of those two circles that are
the things you don't know that you don't
know and so the only way to start
pushing the things that you don't know
that you don't know into the things that
you know that you don't know and the
things that you know that you don't know
into things you know that you know is by
making a lot of mistakes that Reveal
Your blind spots and so he on the
podcast he was like I'm just using the
word mistake because that is in the
vernacular of our culture like they're
not mistakes they're every one of these
things are learning opportunities yes
well they're not failur exactly right
every one wow I have to say I'm so again
so struck like how wise you are at age
29 in terms of being able to figure
these things out which I think people
takes a lot of people quite a long time
I mean do you experience that you're
that you feel like you've kind of gained
a lot of wisdom in your young life is
that from your experiences your tragic
experiences I I would say
um It's a combination
of It's a combination of I would say my
experiences that G have given me
perspective I would say it's one of the
things that really does attract me so
much to entrepreneurship is I think it
is such an accelerant of personal growth
I also attributed to um you know my
fiance being I would say
so high on the on kind of the EQ
spectrum and you know it's
not I don't think it's a coincidence
that every kind of serious relationship
that I've been in in my life the mom of
the person that I was with was a
psychologist like like to me that is
definitely not a coincidence um is like
I think um you we look for things that
are both uh really interesting to us or
also that um that allow us to grow in
areas we weren't naturally provided the
same resource growing up so it's like I
love my parents dearly and I think uh
they parented me in such an amazing way
but I think one of the opportunities
where they didn't even have the tools to
develop me was kind of on the emotional
side and so I think that's why I've
really sought that out in life um and I
would say yeah the other piece
is entrepreneurship is not just a
vehicle for great personal growth as a
function of like you know having to make
a lot of decisions weighing trade-offs
constantly using both the left and right
out of your brains but but I also think
the best hack of Entrepreneurship is it
gives you unfair access to really smart
people and so it's just like one of
those things where meeting really smart
people just Leap Frogs you years because
they just tell you what they've learned
over 10 years in 10 minutes yes oh my
God I love it that's so good Alex just a
couple more questions what do you wish
you had known earlier on your
journey
um that it's okay to not be the CEO
forever and that is perfectly fine that
it's okay to be motivated by money that
is perfectly fine um and that it's
really important to make sure that
you're nurturing other parts of your
identity and even if you're a founder
and CEO you're not just that is not who
you are that is one of the things that
you do beautiful good thank you so much
and what advice do you have for other
Founders as they embark on their journey
to grow into
leaders I would say the first is give
yourself the space to be reflective
about how you're spending your time so
that you don't end up being the
definition of insanity which um my
pledge master in college gave me shout
out to Grinch which is uh the definition
of insanity is doing the same thing over
and over and expecting a different
result and to me the only way you avoid
insanity is by take giving yourself the
time and space to reflect on what you
like about your current situation and
what you don't like about your current
situation and the reason I think it's so
important to share is as an entrepreneur
it is so easy to get lost in the weeds
and the minua especially in the early
days of the business and unless you
create a force function for pulling
yourself out of the business the
business will consume everything that
you are well said so much wisdom Alex
thank you so much for joining me today
this is such an important conversation
and I think everyone's going to benefit
from it so thanks so much for having me
really really enjoyed
it thanks for listening to from startup
to grown-up if you like what you heard
give it a review on Apple podcast so
other people can find it and if you know
of a founder or someone else who is
meant to be on this podcast drop me a
line through my website Alyssa cone.com